Novel learning course using Ruby / The Odin Project
But more importantly used this project to learn more about using Git
Specifically, I had a problem of wanting to make clean repositories 
So I needed to figure out how I can upload the directory I want into git etc.

New things encountered:
irb
RSpec
  - RSpec.describe methods 
	and general testing environment setup
		I wonder if this is what additional test setups will look like

Problems encountered:
Nested git repository not allowing total pushing of code
	Had to manually copy source code and push into new repository; not very clean


possible answers as to why I devoted my time learning this when its web dev and im data sci
Just to apply myself to the programmer mindset
	to develop a question based development environment
		to better my programming skills

8/7 Problem
I am trying to prepare my m1 machine to have a similar dev environment with ruby 
however there are now problems
	First, installing ruby - this was fixed with RVM and googling

	Second, now is installing gems (pry-byebug)
		"You do not have write permissions for the /Library/Ruby/Gems/2.6.0 directory

	*** solution
		After research, there is a command that allows you to install a gem
		locally
		===>	gem install "gem-name" --user-install
		note that from my RVM install, current pry-byebug gem does not work with
		my version of Ruby (2.6.0) so I had to install an older version of pry-byebug
		but everything works fine now
		===>	gem install pry-byebug -v 3.9.0 --user-install

	Last step was installing TOP ruby exercise repository onto my machine and now
		my environment is all setup!


research skills i developed in class I started to apply to outside the classroom

RUBY PROJECT IDEA
	Photo Gallery,
		users can sign up and are given 1 single spot to post a photo
		its an art gallery that showcases skill and potential
			(applaud || throw popcorn!)
			its a number in a hash or something that is keeping track
				of the clicks, and you only need to access that number
				to print out something like
					"12 people threw popcorn at your artwork!"
				and the actual "animation" that happens on the throwers
				screen is just front end stuff and add number to persons hash
				(lol throwers can also be "critics" by how much popcorn they throw)
				refill popcorn stat too
			save your popcorn throwing progress by making signing up!
				(sign up base can be called critics something)
			need page to talk about philosophy of the website (why 1 picture, why throw popcorn)
			need page to ask to hire me!
		Philosphy:
			it brings us closer to scarcity and puts more emphasis
			on intention/meaning/aesthetics


	I can finally make that time sheet program for mama with ruby


Back to a serious idea...
	"Its like editing, everything just comes from accidents and trying"
	I always had trouble imagining how to apply all these concepts of cs tutorials
		into my own unique creative thing
			until you just try enough and learn enough
				even now is just such a premature concept of how to do something
			its given me a lot of faith to try it out


8/8 Ceasar cipher
	This proved to be pretty tough.
		Finished it after several hours and its a little messy with many conditionals
		it works tho, for what its worth. 
		It bothers me that it looks like amatuer code, but this is the journey I'm
		on I guess. To get better you have to be bad first :/

Substrings(key, dictionary) 
	I haven't started yet but I looked at the top solution and its way faster than 
	I thought it was going to be. I wouldnt even know how to get started 



8/9 stock pick and bubble sort (along with two sum problem)

	These were today's challenges so far, and they were demoralizing.
	Stock pick I was able to do myself but the other two..
	bubble sort I didn't even try. We did that in class but translating it to ruby
	I didn't even know how to begin it. same with two sum
	encouragements:
		I'm only a week in, and learning is progressive. 
			I only just begain my path of programming
				give myself a little bit of a break
	discouragements:
			But it was part of the course and it was expected to know how 
			to solve the problem. So why didn't I try to solve it


	DRUNKEN SAILOR PROGRAM
	each bottle they drink
		they become more inebriated
			their words become slurred and randomized slowly with each bottle
			("What do we do with a drunk Sailor?!)
			==>
			("Hovs ap rg go zpog w vmen Sogmal?!)
		Capitals are the same, word separation, exclamation
	
		button to say, next bottle between each line 
		at bottle 50, go into a deep philosophical poem or monologue

	99 bottles of beer on the wall, 99 bottles of beer!
	Take one down, pass it around, 98 bottles of beer on the wall

	

tic tac toe
	
8/10
	began sailor program, which came with more complications than I thought
	needed to think how to effeciently break down the string and manipulate individual letters
	This went through different iterations using arrays, hashes, and different
	enumerable methods. So far ended on making one large array and with each index
	a single character in the full string.
	
	Now need to find how to access non-repeated, individual characters and change them
	while avoiding whitespaces, numbers, and punctuation.
	Next step also will need to print out modified string


8/23 
sailor program finished for now
working on tictac again

school started too

I find it hard to keep track of all the different material learned between practicing ruby
and calculus
and work

Tic tac toe project is revealing some insight and problems in programming
trying to solve rudimentary problems such as
	Accessing hash maps from parent class

Used chatgpt for insight on how to solve problems

This brings up the conversation of using ai for programming
	=> not cheating as Im not asking it to build the program for me but 
		how to navigate the ruby syntax
	=> How I see it, I am leveraging it the same as one would use stackoverflow

Continuing this, I see the value in practicing the rudimentary skills of a beginner project
such as tic tac toe, but the time spent on it only makes me want to jump ahead to projects
that I want to do



825
I've been seeing this trend online, where all your support needed for heavy lifting in 
programming/working is done by AI.

In my crunch for time, Im wondering if I should go this way just to boost my time
and actually get products out to get my awarness out
the only problem is that I dont learn

So we're back to the age old shortcut question
You can look at it as a boost to your starting position, an neccessary boost that will put you
on level with everyone else => and from there you can start to understand your surroundings
or build yourself up from the bottom

I suppose one would say that you should just to get it over with and get there
but idk 












